Led by the University of Vaasa, a significant research consortium aims to develop radically new solutions for clean and efficient marine and off-road transport – a Finnish response to tightening emission legislation and growing global competition in these segments.
In the light of energy transition in marine and off-road segments, the goal of the Clean Propulsion Technologies (CPT) Consortium is to secure the global technology leader position for the Finnish powertrain industry by creating a common vision and sustainable business solutions. This will be accomplished by moving the most promising, innovative (TRL3) powertrain technologies to Readiness Level (TRL) 5-6. These developments will secure compliance with emission and GHG regulations in both segments until 2035. In the long term, the goal is achieved by evolving the common technological roadmap for the marine and off-road sectors providing a consolidated plan for how to secure this compliance until 2050. The objectives pertain to several impactful innovations: an H2 engine demo, ultra-efficient RCCI combustion with biogas, advanced thermal management and novel catalyst solutions. All of those developments are further grasped into the context of combined combustion-electric-hydraulic operation and supported by state-of-the-art model-based control and power management solutions.

University of Vaasa leads the Clean Propulsion Technologies consortium and the VEBIC laboratories are instrumental for the development of the project’s combustion-aftertreatment technologies. Aside to providing the >10MEu net worth, state of the art facilities with rapid prototyping capabilities, we are responsible for this project’s model-based development framework. The framework forms a major methodological upgrade on the incremental improvement approaches used in earlier projects, and secures feasibility of this project’s ambitious objectives. In the end of the project University of Vaasa will demonstrate (TRL 5) a worlds-first, large-bore RCCI (Reactivity Controlled Compression Ignition) marine engine platform meeting Stage V emission limits. We also prepare the framework towards it’s hybridization with tailored aftertreatment and electric power take-in/take-out strategies. Finally, we are responsible for business case assessment of the technologies developed in this project and for putting them in context of future market needs (technological roadmap). The consortium management activities include wide range of common dissemination underlining the project’s ground-breaking role on the international propulsion development arena. 
